Steve Mostovoy

[Address withheld on web] • Edison, NJ 08837 [Phone withheld on web] • SteveMostovoySM@gmail.com

http://www.stevemostovoy.com/


Skills

Languages: C#, Java, C, C++, PHP
Frameworks: .NET, Swing, Qt
Web Development: HTML, CSS, JavaScript
Development Environments: Visual Studio, IntelliJ Idea, Dreamweaver, UNIX
Version Control: Git, Mercurial, SVN
Databases: Oracle, SQL, PostgreSQL


Education

Rutgers University, New Brunswick

Junior pursuing a Bachelor of Science in Computer Science, Expected Graduation: May 2015.

Notable Coursework: Introduction to Artificial Intelligence, Internet Technologies, Compilers, Operating System Design, Computer Architecture, Software Methodology, Design and Analysis of Computer Algorithms

Middlesex County Academy for Science, Mathematics, and Engineering Technologies College preparatory magnet school with four years of Electrical Engineering, 2007-2011.


Work Experience

PTC Therapeutics, Software Engineering Contractor
Summer 2011 – Present

- Built PCR Automation System, a full automation stack to manage three Polymerase Chain Reaction machines. Reverse engineered the interface to the machines through disassembly and monitoring.
- Developed a front-end in C# as a layer of abstraction to communicate with the machines over the network.
- Created Curve Analyzer, a complex Java application utilizing genetic algorithms to display and inspect large amounts of data.
- Designed a plate rotator on a Debian embedded system, with a webserver customized using shell scripts.

Peak Analysis and Automation, England, Internship
Summer 2013

- Performed a security overhaul of PAA’s Overlord3, updated the internal ordering system, wrote an email database client to manage mailing lists, and created a dynamic web front-end for license management.
- Virtualized and obfuscated existing .NET code, and created a new license data format with RSA encryption.
- Set up a PostgreSQL database to handle all license information and built .NET libraries for ease of integration in future projects.
- Developed License Manager Suite, a C# application for internal use to manage user licenses through the new database.
- Designed a simple web front-end for end user license retrieval using PHP and a minimal HTTP listener running on the database server.
- Created Email Database Manager in C# with a custom search engine using LINQ to perform dynamic and complex searches on any number of fields.


Projects and Competitions

-  One time 2nd place winner and two time participant at HackRU, a 24-hour hackathon.
2012-2014

-  Tetris Bot, a bot in C# for playing a specific version of Tetris online.
2013

-  TouchSynth, an Arduino-based music synthesizer in C++ built for my electrical engineering high
2010-2011

school senior project.
2010-2011

-  Programmer for Team 3539 using RobotC in FIRST Tech Challenge, an international robotics

competition for students, achieving Quarter Finalist in World Championships among 1600 teams.


-  NJIT High School Programming Competition as part of a team of three, placing 2nd for two
2010, 2011

consecutive years.
2009

-  Billiards, a graphical game of billiards for two players with Qt and C++.

-  Console Chess, a text-based two player game of chess written in C++.
2008


