 Mahesh phaul
 


Summary:

Have 3+ years experience as Developer based on HTML and Java architecture and         
             Client/Server model
Currently working in IBM India Pvt Ltd from June, 2009
Have worked for QSO technologies India Pvt Ltd from July 2007 to March 2009
Was Software Trainee for IIIT-B & Infosys from Oct 2006 to Apr 2007
Have good knowledge on core Java and OOPS concepts
Extensively developed Web Applications using Java, JSP, Servlets, JDBC and Java scripts
Experience in Java Swings, JSP, HTML to implement the UI components
Have good knowledge on writing complex SQL Queries to pull the reports from the DB 
Good experience in providing solutions with Application and Web Servers like, Apache 
             Tomcat 
Have been involved in the entire project life cycle starting from requirements gathering 
             to implementation
Hands-on experience in IDE Tools: Eclipse and NetBeans
Developed and deployed applications in Windows
Knowledge and Experience of Manual Testing
Have very good communication / interpersonal skills and is capable of maintaining and  
             Working with team

Skills:

Languages
HTML, CSS, Java, Java Script, SQL
Technologies/ tools
Applets, Java Swings, AWT
Development tools 
Dream weaver, Eclipse and SQL*Plus
Platforms/ hardware
Windows and MAC
Database
Oracle and MySQL 
Web /application
Servers
Apache Tomcat Server 	

Projects:

1.  Audiometer
Abstract:           Audiometry is the technique to identify and quantitatively determine the degree     of hearing loss of a person by measuring his hearing sensitivity, so that suitable medical treatment or one of the appropriate hearing aids and assistive devices can be prescribed. In audiological investigations, the hearing sensitivity is tested for pure tones, speech or other sound stimuli. The result, when plotted graphically, is called an audiogram. The electronic instrument used for measuring the hearing threshold level is called an audiometer. Using it, the tones of different frequencies and levels are generated and presented to the patient and hearing thresholds are determined on the basis of patient’s response. 

Role & Responsibilities:
Extensive Research on Audiometer Techniques and sound intensity levels
Worked as a Component Developer to code in Java and J2EE technologies 
Generated User interface Templates using Java Swings
Developed the Java Code using Eclipse as IDE
Involved in generation of sound using Java sound APIs
Involved in plotting the Audiogram using Java Packages
Performed Manual Testing

Technologies: 
 Java, Java Swings, Java sound APIs and Eclipse


2.  Data Accessibility in school using Smart card
Abstract:             This project is developed to maintain the database of the students, staff, admin and the parents. The student’s information like personal information, educational details from the admission in the school till his completion of studies is updated. Also it is stored in the database permanently. Same way the staff  information is stored. The parents can view the details of the student online. The student, staff, admin can enter the School premises using the Smart card. All the rights to view and edit is given to Admin.

Role & Responsibilities:
Involved in writing technical proposal for the client
Worked as a Component Developer to code in Java and J2EE technologies
Generated User interface Templates using JSP, CSS, HTML and Dream Weaver
Creation and updation of database using mySQL
Have performed Manual Testing

Technologies: 
HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Java


3. Pension Soft
Client: 		Allianz Group
Abstract:           This is a software which helps to give different types of offers to their employees.  This software is mainly used by Allianz sales group. They can add, delete and edit the company employee group and also search the company employee group, employees and also provide various pension schemes to the employees wherein the employee can choose the pension schemes.

Role & Responsibilities:
Involved in writing technical proposal for the client
Involved in the development of user interface and Report generation 
Creation and updation of database using mySQL
Developed the Java Code using Eclipse as IDE
Technologies: 
HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Java swings, Eclipse


4. Automation of Infy Bank
Abstract:           The Main objective of this Project is to provide better service to the Bank customers, Infy Bank plans to automate and web enable their services. Friendly Bank, another leading bank in the country, provides a service to its associated banks to transfer fund from an account in the associated bank to an account in Friendly Bank. Infy bank is associated with Friendly Bank and one objective of the automation of Infy Bank is to leverage this service. 

 The system was designed to provide better service to the customers. There will be three kinds of users namely Manager, Staff and Customer who can avail the service provided by this system. The services would be fund transfer, deposit, and withdraw money and reporting. There will be different levels of authorization as far as maintaining (adding, deleting, editing customer details and change password) the database is concerned.

Role & Responsibilities:
Understanding the business requirement for database and application design and development
Developing front-end screens in JSP and HTML
Client side validation using Java Script
Database connectivity for applications using JDBC
      Embedding business logic in Servlets
Using Back end tools such as SQL Plus in Oracle 9i
Technologies: 
Servlets, JSP, Java Script, HTML, JDBC, SQL Plus, Eclipse
Personal Details:
Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics & Communication Engineering from Visvesvaraya Technological University in 2006, Bangalore, India.
Declaration:
The above information provided by me is true to the best of my knowledge and belief.

                                                                                                          Mahesh Reddy
