Richard Williams
SUMMARY:
Highly experienced in developing and implementing SaaS software.
Expert at designing, delivering, and maintaining customer-focused software solutions.
Expert at designing and developing applications based on a Client Server architecture.
Highly proficient at development of front-end, middle tier and back-end of applications.
Expert at designing customer-facing UI.
Expert at developing apps using spreadsheet API and interface.
Thorough unit tester and quality focused developer.
EXPERIENCE:
Over 10 years of development experience in:
Designing, architecting and developing software applications.
Developing multiplatform UI.
Creating Web Servers to provide a wide array of Web Services using Apache Tomcat Servlets.
JavaScript and Java Servlet and XML and Database integration (AJAX).
Connecting to databases & retrieving data using JDBC technology.
Creating thin web clients using JavaScript.
Using Java Server Pages (JSP) to create dynamically generated web pages.
Creating software applications using Java-based Actuate e.Spreadsheet API.
Deploying applications using Java Web Start methodology
Deploying serverside applications on Linux-based servers.
Creating Java Archive (Jar) files to distribute Java apps.
Creating Web Application Archive (War) files to distribute Java Servlets.
Creating context-based online help using Javadoc.
Extensive software and application development experience (aggregate 10 years) using the following technologies and processes:
SQL expertise and creating databases using MySQL.
Visual Basic for Applications (VBA).
Rich Internet Applications using HTML and XHTML.
Developing web-based mobile application development platform and applications.
Highly skilled at executing Proof of Concept development projects.
Mission critical application production deployment and support.
Application maintenance & porting.
Rapid Application Development (RAD).
Systems and requirements analysis.
Commercial software development and implementation through a Web portal.
PROFESSIONAL SKILLS:
Highly capable of multitasking and meeting aggressive deadlines.
Outstanding ability to create complex technical presentations for a non-technical audience.
Professional developer highly focused on delivering structured, efficient and readable code.
Highly proficient in working with users and translating their needs into technical solutions.
Skilled at developing analytical and technical reference and user documents.
Performing financial analysis, budgeting, forecasting, projections and man-power planning.
PERSONAL TRAITS:
Excellent organizer, communicator & project planner.
Outstanding written skills.
Collaborative team player.
Keen ability to see the ‘big picture’.
Detail oriented.
Master of complexity.
Highly quality conscious.
EMPLOYMENT HISTORY:
February 2003 – September 2010
ABC Inc, Any Town, NY
Developer and Administrator
Customized applications to fit customer needs.
Performed daily maintenance and troubleshooting.
Integrated web interface for applications using AR Web.
Jun 1996 – September 2002
XYZ Corp, Any Town, NY
Database Developer
Performed Business Analysis with company representatives in the Executive, Administrative, and Operations departments to gather requirements and create a viable scope of work.
Removed approximately 90% of the existing VBA code while adding functionality and improving performance.
Made extensive use of SQL Server stored procedures, triggers, and views to move processing overhead from the client to the server.
Created user-friendly forms and reports using Access 2003 front end.
Re-engineered the SQL Server database with improved normalization, indexes, and proper Primary and Foreign Key constraints.
Designed and executed DTS packages to move original data from the old schema to the new schema.
Set up backup and maintenance plans and trained employees how to use the new system.
October 1995 – March 1996
BCD Inc, Any Town, NY
Software Developer
Develop and maintain website include both Admin and Client site using SQL, Stored Procedures, VB, VBA, VB.net, Perl, ASP, IIS, ADO, HTML, XML, AJAX, CSS, JavaScript, VBScript.
Using VB, MS Excel, PivotTable, Macros, VBA, and SQL Server 2000 to develop the Any Rate software, data analysis reports products and software tools.
Work with SQL Query Analyzer, Enterprise Manager to write Sorted Procedures and Import/output data.
EDUCATION:
1993 – University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign, Bachelor of Science in IT

