Mahesh Reddy

Objective
To work in a dynamic company where my analytical/technical skills and work experience are utilized. Looking for a Project lead/Tech lead position.

Summary
Over 8 years of IT Industry experience in Java/J2EE encompassing a wide range of skill set, roles and industry verticals 
Extensive experience with analysis, design, development, customizations and implementation of software applications.
Experience in Leading Teams, Client Co-ordination, Delivery and Software Configuration Management.
Proficient in analyzing and translating business requirements to technical requirements and architecture design.
Domain experience of Investment Banking, Financial Services, Retail and HealthCare.
Possess technical expertise in Java, Servlets, Struts, hibernate, EJB, WebServices, and various databases.
Experience with various Architectures, Frameworks and Design Patterns.

Technical skills
Java Technologies		Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, EJB
Frameworks/Tools	Struts, Hibernate, Spring, Apache Axis, Crystal Reports SDK, 
Apache POI, log4j, DOM, Ant, Google Analytics and Maps API, Java Cryptography
Database			Oracle9i , SQLServer 2005, MySql 5
Application/Web Servers	WebLogic8.1, Tomcat5.0, WebSphere AS 5.1, ApacheWebServer2.2
UI Tools			ExtJS, AJAX, JavaScript, JSON
GUI/IDE	Eclipse3.3, NetBeans, WSAD5.0
Case/Design Tools		UML, SOA, Design Patterns
Reporting Tools		Crystal Reports XI, iText Library.
OS Environment		Windows, Solaris8.0, IBM AIX3.5, RedHat Linux.
Languages			C, C++, SQL, PL/SQL, XML, JavaScript
Version control tool		StarTeam 2005, VSS.
Other Tools			MS Project, MS Visio.
Experience
October 2008 – Present AUXANO Technologies, Mumbai   
Auxano provides IT Services in the area of Publishing, Healthcare and Business Consulting.
Primarily catering services to eCrossingsMedia, is a part of Lebhar-Freidman, Inc. USA.
Roles assigned: Project Lead

September 2005 – March 2008 Infrasoft Technologies, Mumbai   
Infrasoft Technologies is a specialist Banking and Financial Solutions Company
Roles assigned: System Analyst

January 2002 – August 2005 Pentafour, Bangalore
Roles assigned: Software Engineer  

Feb 2000 – December 2001 Apollo Software, Hyderabad
Roles assigned: Admin/Trainer.

Education

1997 – 1999    	Master of Business Administration (Systems) 
- Sri Venkateswara University, Tirupati, AP
1996 – 1997    	Diploma in RDBMS from SSIL.
1993 – 1996    	Bachelor of Science (Computers) 
- Sri Krishnadevaraya University, Ananthapur, AP
2000 Brainbench certification in Java.
Trained in MS Project and ITILv3 Foundation course.
Projects

Project			ChainStoreGuide.com & CSG-OnlinePro
Organization		eCrossingsMedia 
Client			ChainStoreGuide, LF group, USA
Time span		October 2008 – present
Role			Project Lead
Technologies  	Struts, Hibernate, WebLogic8.1, SQLServer
Chain Store Guide details all major retailers, restaurants, distributors and wholesalers in the United States and Canada with Business and contact information. Industry information is categorized into various products. Customer can choose to buy online product. Query Builder feature is available to search the data within the purchased product. Google Analytics are used to track the Customer Activity to prepare Management Reports.

Responsibilities & Activities
Requirement gathering, Estimation, Analysis and Design.
Client Co-ordination and Reviews
Upgrading PayPal Payment gateway.
Database Migration from SQLServer2000 to SQLServer2005
Integration with Salesforce.com and data export to support popular CRM applications.
PDF generation using iText.
Integration with Google Maps and Google Analytics.


Project			ITP Classifieds
Organization		AuxanoTech, Mumbai
Client			ITP.com, Dubai
Time span		November 2009 – February 2010
Role			Project Lead
Technologies 		PHP, xampp, MySql, Apache Web Server 2.0
ITP Classifieds is built on using AJ Framework; this application is developed with more focus on Real Estate, Auto and Events classifieds. It has a main User Access application to post classifieds. Admin application is available to manage and control User accounts, posted classifieds, Payment gateway configuration and Content Management.
Responsibilities
Planning, Estimation, Task Allocation.
Team Co-ordination and Progress Reviews

Project			iSmile32
Organization		AuxanoTech, Mumbai
Client			iSmile32
Time span		January 2009 – November 2009
Role			Project Lead
Technologies  	ExtJs, Spring, Hibernate, JSP, Tomcat5.0, MySql
iSmile32 is a Dental Practice Management System. It provides many features and assists doctors, clinic staff to manage various operations.  Features include Patient Scheduling, Visit History, Drug Information, Clinicals, Treatment history, Accounting, Report Generation and Notes on each section. Interfaces are developed for Online Insurance Claims, digital x-rays and Drug information assistance. 

Responsibilities
Team Leading, Requirement gathering, Analysis and Design.
Client Co-ordination and development review.
QC Support and Release Management.

Project			CsgDataIntel.com
Organization		eCrossingsMedia, USA
Client			ChainStoreGuide
Time span		March 2009 – September 2009
Role			Project Lead
Technologies  	Struts, Hibernate, WebLogic8.1, SQLServer
CSG Data Intel facilitates users to build custom queries. Queries can be built on based on the various options; this allows the customers to get the exact information with minimum charges. Query data can be downloaded in various formats like PDF, CSV and excel. 

Responsibilities
Requirement gathering and Analysis.
Team Co-ordination and Reviews
Release Management.


Project			OmniEnterprise Wealth Management System
Organization		InfrasoftTech, Mumbai
Client			Pre-Sales, Internal Product Development
Time span		February 2007 – March 2008
Role			System Analyst
Technologies  	Struts, Hibernate, JSP, Tomcat5.0, IIS5, SQLServer2005

OmniEnterprise: Wealth Management System offers private banks, asset managers, fund managers, trusts, insurance firms, brokerages and banks, a customer centric approach. 
Wealth Management Framework provides Customer Portals, Fund Manager Dashboards, Broker Interfaces, Core Back Office System, Brokerage & Billing System, Portfolio Management and Reporting.

Responsibilities
Team Leading, Requirement Analysis, Design and Task Allocation, issue tracking.
Team Co-ordination and Reviews
Software Configuration Management
Testing, QC Support and Release Management.


Project			OmniEnterprise Islamic Retail Banking System
Organization		InfrasoftTech, Mumbai
Client			UK based Financial Service Provider
Time span		September 2006 – January 2007
Role			Sr. Software Programmer	
Technologies		JSP, Struts, Tomcat5.0, IIS 5, SQLServer2005, Crystal Reports XI

OMNIEnterprise: Islamic Banking is a true Shariah compliant core banking solution. It provides a total riba-free solution to evolve complex financial products. System provides transactions processing & accounting to business process management & reporting.
OMNIEnterprise Islamic investment banking module is derived out of OMNIEnterprise and provides an integrated automation of front office & back-office operations of a bank. Core banking module provides integrated General Ledger, Profit & Loss and Reporting for all functional modules in an integrated manner. The solution integrates accounts of one customer across the enterprise and provides a customer centric view to transaction processing & accounting.

Customization for Client implementation
Developing new modules using struts framework
Code reviews, enhancements and suggesting/implementing coding standards 
Developing Reports.


Project			Treasury Back-office System
Organization		InfrasoftTech, Mumbai
Client			European Islamic Investment Bank (EIIB)
Time span		September 2005 – August 2006
Role			Sr. Software Programmer
Technologies		JSP, Struts, Tomcat5.0, IIS 5.0, MySql, Crystal Reports XI, Crystal SDK

The Project is all about designing and implementing various Islamic products and Trading System as part of Treasury Back Operions.  Implemention supports Murabaha, Sukuks, Ijara Leasing and Financing, Musharakha, Salaam, Istisna. etc.., products. This Product is a fully integrated banking solution with multi-entity & multi-currency accounting. This project catered to customizing solution as per client needs.

Development and Unit Testing of Various modules, using struts and jsp.
Leading Reports Development Team. Reports release responsibility. 
Reports development using Crystal Reports and integrated with OmniEnterprise using Crystal Reports SDK.
Team Co-ordination, Compatability and Performance Testing on various platforms.

Soft skills
Have good motivation to learn new skills/technologies, excellent analytical/problem-solving skills, fast-learner and self-initiative.
Good communication skills, interpersonal skills and team player. 
Ability to learn new concepts, adapt to new environments, plan and execute a given job to perfection.

Address - Green Hmbai –400059
References will be provided on request. 
